(DOCSP-19488): Flexible Sync Documentation - JS Usage Examples (#1539)
mongodb/docs-realm: source/sdk/node/examples/flexible-sync.txt

.. _node-flexible-sync:

===========================
Flexible Sync - Node.js SDK
===========================

.. default-domain:: mongodb

.. contents:: On this page
   :local:
   :backlinks: none
   :depth: 2
   :class: singlecol

Overview
--------

Flexible Sync uses subscriptions and permissions to determine which
data to sync with your {+app+}.

To use Flexible Sync in a Node.js client:

- Configure Flexible Sync on the backend [LINK TO BACKEND CONFIG PAGE WHEN COMPLETE]
- :ref:`Initialize the app <node-quick-start-init-app>`
- :ref:`Authenticate a user <node-quick-start-authenticate>` in
  your client project.
- :ref:`Open the synced Realm with a Flexible Sync configuration <node-flexible-sync-open-realm>`
- :ref:`Add subscriptions to the client application <node-sync-subscribe-to-queryable-fields>`

You can add, update, and remove query subscriptions to determine which data 
syncs to the client device.

.. include:: /includes/note-flexible-sync-preview.rst

Subscribe to Queryable Fields
-----------------------------

When configuring Flexible Sync on the backend, you specify which fields
your client application can query. In the client application, use the 

> ``subscriptions`` API to manage a set of subscriptions to specific queries on 

Author: Fixed: changed to ``Subscriptions`` 👍

  In the following example, several queries are created to subscribe to:

  - A filtered list of completed tasks that have taken over 120 ``progressMinutes``
  - A filtered list of completed tasks

  Notice that queries that you subscribe to using Flexible Sync are
  syntactically the same as :ref:`querying a {+realm+} <node-read-operations>`
  and that the queries below will create an overlapping result set.

  .. literalinclude:: /examples/generated/node/flexible-sync.codeblock.create-queries-to-subscribe-to.js
     :language: javascript

Get Subscriptions
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
To get a list of read-only snapshot of subscriptions, call
``getSubscriptions()`` method on the {+realm+}. 

.. literalinclude:: /examples/generated/node/flexible-sync.codeblock.get-subscriptions.js
    :language: javascript

You can use this snapshot to add queries to this list of subscriptions and
update existing subscriptions, as shown in the examples below.

Add a Query to the List Of Subscriptions
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 
Within a Flexible Sync ``transaction`` you can add queries to your list of subscriptions.

Queries must be added to the list of existing subscriptions within a

> ``transaction``. Create a transaction by passing a callback function ``update()`` on

Author: That's a good suggestion, I've replaced the existing wording with your suggestion, but rephrased it a bit & made it a list to make it even more easy to read: 👍 

```
You can add queries to your subscriptions list. To do so, perform the following: 

1. Create a transaction by passing a callback function to the ``update()`` method of your subscriptions snapshot. The callback function provides a mutable instance of the subscriptions as an argument. 
2. Within the callback function, call the ``add()`` method on the mutable subscription instance to add a query to the subscription.
```

the ``subscriptions`` snapshot. Within the callback function, call the ``add()``
method on the mutable subscription instance to add a query to the subscription.

The ``mutableSubscriptionsInstance.add()`` method takes a ``query``, and a
subscription options object. The subscription options include:

- a ``name`` string field
- a ``throwOnUpdate`` boolean field.

If ``throwOnUpdate`` is false or not defined, adding a subscription with an
existing name will replace the existing query with the new query. However, if
you set ``throwOnUpdate`` to true, adding a subscription with an existing name
but a different query throws an exception.

You can add a single query, or multiple queries within a ``subscription.update``
transaction. In the example below, we subscribe to the queries we created
earlier. 

.. literalinclude:: /examples/generated/node/flexible-sync.codeblock.subscribe-to-queryable-fields.js
    :language: javascript

> Check the Status of Subscriptions

Author: Added the "waitForSynchronization" method now 👍 Let me know if I worded the explanation correctly.

To the status of subscriptions, log the value of the subscription's ``state``.

.. literalinclude:: /examples/generated/node/flexible-sync.codeblock.log-subscription-state.js 
    :language: javascript

Update Subscriptions with a New Query
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
You can update a named subscription with a new query. To update a subscriptions
query, pass the new query and a subscription option with the name of the
subscription that you want to update to the
``mutableSubscriptionsInstance.add()`` method. Like adding a new subscription,
you must update a subscription within a transaction by calling
``subscriptions.update()`` method.

In the following example, long running tasks are re-defined to be any tasks that
have taken more than 180 minutes. 

.. literalinclude:: /examples/generated/node/flexible-sync.codeblock.update-subscriptions.js
    :language: javascript

.. note::
 
   Attempting to update a subscription that has the
   ``SubscriptionOptions.throwOnUpdate`` field set to true, throw an exception.

Remove Subscriptions
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
To remove subscriptions from the subscription set, you can:

> - Remove a single subscription with the given query

Reviewer: You can also remove a subscription if you have a reference to that subscription: https://github.com/realm/realm-js/blob/td/flexible-sync-final-squash/types/index.d.ts#L858

e.g.

```
let sub;
subs.update(mutableSubs => {
  sub = mutableSubs.add(realm.objects("Person"));
});

// later..
subs.removeSubscription(sub);
```

but if you chose to leave this out as its an advanced use case, that's fine!

Author: Added this as an example under the subheading "Remove a Subscription by Reference"

- :ref:`Add subscriptions to the client application <node-sync-subscribe-to-queryable-fields>`

You can add, update, and remove query subscriptions to determine which data 
syncs to the client device.

.. include:: /includes/note-flexible-sync-preview.rst

Subscribe to Queryable Fields
-----------------------------

When configuring Flexible Sync on the backend, you specify which fields
your client application can query. In the client application, use the 
``Subscriptions`` API to manage a set of subscriptions to specific queries on 
queryable fields.

You can:

- Get a list of all subscriptions
- Add subscriptions
- Check subscription state
- Update a subscription with a new query
- Remove individual subscriptions or all subscriptions of a type

When data matches the subscription and has appropriate permissions, it syncs
between devices and the backend application.

A Realm subscription in JavaScript has:

- A created and updated date 
- A name
- An object type
- A query string 

You can specify a string name for your subscription. If you do not give your
subscription a name, the name returns :mdn:`null

> <Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/null>`.

Reviewer: This behaviour was changed, as far as I know all SDKs return `null` instead of query string now as we decided it didn't make that much sense to return the query string for the name

> <Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/null>`.

Author: changed to "is set to null".

When you create a subscription, Realm looks for data matching a query on a
specific object type. In your Flexible Sync subscriptions, you can have
subscriptions on several different object types or several queries on the same
object type.

.. example::

>   In the following example, several queries are created to subscribe to:

Author: 👍  took out the word "several"

  - A filtered list of completed tasks that have taken over 120 ``progressMinutes``
  - A filtered list of completed tasks

  Notice that queries that you subscribe to using Flexible Sync are
  syntactically the same as :ref:`querying a {+realm+} <node-read-operations>`

>   and that the queries below will create an overlapping result set.

Reviewer 2: Will the example be updated? Right now it doesn't look like we're using flexible sync, just filtering objects.

Author: This example is supposed to just be storing a reference to the query, in the example below we actually subscribe to the queries using the reference.

  .. literalinclude:: /examples/generated/node/flexible-sync.codeblock.create-queries-to-subscribe-to.js
     :language: javascript

Get Subscriptions
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

> To get a list of read-only snapshot of subscriptions, call

Reviewer 2: "list of read-only snapshots of subscriptions" is confusing. Especially given that we say we can use the snapshot to add queries, so I don't understand what's "read-only" about it. Could you clarify?

Reviewer: Agree the wording seems off – just to clarify from a technical point of view, the return value from `getSubscriptions()` is a read-only, immutable snapshot of the current subscriptions at that point in time. 

In order to modify the set of subscriptions, you need to call `subs.update(mutableSubs => { mutableSubs.add... })` – so you can only modify the mutable instance you get in the callback, the `Subscriptions` instance returned from `getSubscriptions` does not have `add`/`remove` etc methods.

This is by design to try to guide users towards updating their subscriptions in a batch, because each update call is quite a heavy process on the server.

Author: Altered the text to be "To get a snapshot of current subscriptions, call ``getSubscriptions()`` method
on the {+realm+}."

``getSubscriptions()`` method on the {+realm+}. 

.. literalinclude:: /examples/generated/node/flexible-sync.codeblock.get-subscriptions.js
    :language: javascript

> You can use this snapshot to add queries to this list of subscriptions and

Reviewer 2: Which list?
```suggestion
You can use this snapshot to add queries to the list of subscriptions and
```

Author: fixed locally 👍

update existing subscriptions, as shown in the examples below.

Add a Query to the List Of Subscriptions
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 
You can add queries to your subscriptions list. To do so, perform the following: 

#. Create a transaction by passing a callback function to the ``update()`` method of your subscriptions snapshot. The callback function provides a mutable instance of the subscriptions as an argument. 
#. Within the callback function, call the ``add()`` method on the mutable subscription instance to add a query to the subscription.

> The ``add()`` method on the mutable subscription instance takes a ``query``, and a

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The ``add()`` method on the mutable subscription instance takes a ``query`` and a
```

subscription options object. The subscription options include:

- a ``name`` string field
- a ``throwOnUpdate`` boolean field.

> If ``throwOnUpdate`` is false or not defined, adding a subscription with an

Reviewer 2: May as well use the JS terminology
```suggestion
If ``throwOnUpdate`` is false or undefined, adding a subscription with an
```

existing name will replace the existing query with the new query. However, if
you set ``throwOnUpdate`` to true, adding a subscription with an existing name

> but a different query throws an exception.

Reviewer 2: Minor style point:

Currently, the two sentences are like this:
- First sentence: If X is false, ...
- Second sentence: However, if **you** set...

But you could parallelize this better:
- If X is false, ...
- However, if X is true, ...

(And I would actually remove the "However", since the parallel makes it pretty clear it's the opposite!)

You can add a single query, or multiple queries within a ``subscription.update``
transaction. In the example below, we subscribe to the queries we created
earlier. 

.. literalinclude:: /examples/generated/node/flexible-sync.codeblock.subscribe-to-queryable-fields.js
    :language: javascript

Check the Status of Subscriptions
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
You can use the ``waitForSynchronization()`` method to wait for the server to
acknowledge this set of subscriptions and return the matching objects: 

> The ``waitForSynchronization()`` method returns a promise which is resolved when

Reviewer 2: That instead of which (specific instance instead of general), and also could go active on that:
```suggestion
The ``waitForSynchronization()`` method returns a promise that resolves when
```

> synchronization is complete, or is rejected if there is an error during

Reviewer 2: With previous suggestion, plus remove comma since subject did not change:
```suggestion
synchronization is complete or rejects if there is an error during
```

> synchronisation.

Reviewer 2: American spelling:
```suggestion
synchronization.
```

.. note::
 
   The ``waitForSynchronization()`` method throws if there is an error, so we
   recommend wrapping it in a :mdn:`try...catch
   <Web/JavaScript/Reference/Statements/try...catch>` statement.

.. literalinclude:: /examples/generated/node/flexible-sync.codeblock.wait-for-synchronization.js
    :language: javascript

In addition to the ``waitForSynchronization()`` method, you can check the
subscription state to see if the server has acknowledged the subscription and

> the device has downloaded the data has locally.

Reviewer 2: Stray "has"?
```suggestion
the device has downloaded the data locally.
```

You can use subscription state to:

- Trigger error handling
- Show if the transaction is pending or has completed
- Find out when a subscription set is superseded, and you should obtain a

>   new instance of the subscription set to write a subscription change

Reviewer 2: I think I commented similarly on the other SDK PR: I find this surprising. The first two sound totally normal and the third one throws a lot of new terms at you. The structure of the sentence is hard to parse. Maybe instead of "and you should", you could say "which means you should"?

Reviewer: Yeah, the superseded case is quite hard to explain and I guess sort of an edge case for users. I'll try to get a good explanation of it together for you if that's helpful?

To the status of subscriptions, log the value of the subscription's ``state``.

.. literalinclude:: /examples/generated/node/flexible-sync.codeblock.log-subscription-state.js 
    :language: javascript

Update Subscriptions with a New Query
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
You can update a named subscription with a new query. To update a subscriptions
query, pass the new query and a subscription option with the name of the
subscription that you want to update to the
``mutableSubscriptionsInstance.add()`` method. Like adding a new subscription,
you must update a subscription within a transaction by calling
``subscriptions.update()`` method.

> In the following example, long running tasks are re-defined to be any tasks that

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
In the following example, long-running tasks are re-defined to be any tasks that
```

In the following example, the subscription to tasks with an owner named 'Ben' is
removed from the subscriptions set.

.. literalinclude:: /examples/generated/node/flexible-sync.codeblock.remove-single-subscription.js
    :language: javascript

Remove a Subscription by Name
`````````````````````````````
To remove a specific subscription by name, execute a transaction on
the subscriptions set. Within the transaction, pass the name to the
``removeByName()`` method on the mutable subscriptions instance.

.. literalinclude:: /examples/generated/node/flexible-sync.codeblock.remove-subscription-by-name.js
    :language: javascript

Remove a Subscription by Reference
``````````````````````````````````
If you have a reference to a subscription, you can remove that subscription. To
do so, execute a transaction on the subscriptions set. Within the transaction,
pass the reference variable to the ``removeSubscription()`` method on the
mutable subscriptions instance.

.. literalinclude:: /examples/generated/node/flexible-sync.codeblock.remove-subscription-by-reference.js
    :language: javascript

Remove All Subscriptions of an Object Type
``````````````````````````````````````````

> To remove all subscriptions of a specific object type, execute a transaction on

Reviewer 2: Should we say "subscriptions OF a type" or do we mean "subscriptions ON a type"?

Author: Replaced "of" to "on" 👍
